# MIT Notes

WOW crazy moderator, asking awesome questions. 

University and Academia vs Industry 

- Industry is less willing to invest in research that is not directly applicable to profits and capitalism.
- Academia is more willing to do long term foundational research, not even knowing all the outcomes of the research. Ex: CRISPR was just curiosity of bacterial systems, Ozempic from studying diabetes and gilamonsters.
- Academia is driven by curiosity. Researchers need freedom to find and explore
- Academia is more well established in training and running experiments and industry. Would you trust a pilot who has never flown a plane? Experience is key.

POLITICS 

- What are the stakes for budget cuts from the federal government?
- Potentially 21% endowment tax, direct and indirect budgets. Includes NSF, NIH, creating a near perfect storm. In the most extreme, the size of MIT would have to be reduced by a third.
    - Less focus on promising, long term research.
- Why not use endowment? The idea was for intergenerational stability, and the funds are restricted. More financial aid, thanks to the endowment (free tuition for less than 200k)
- How to people relate to universities with large endowments? People don’t sympathize with the small fraction of people who went to MIT on free tuition.
    - The USG is leveraging the endowment as well; they benefit from MIT reputation and research.
    - MIT makes education available to the public, which supplements those students who are high achievers.
        - Also looking into way for training the American workforce, or even pre-college education.

New manufacturing initiative

- MIT is all about making things. They’ve always had a hand in policy in the US. With talks of reshoreing manufacturing, MIT wants to have a hand in supplementing US companies expertise.
- A tech training program, not an MIT degree, but a useful curriculum that could enable the building of a stronger workforce.
- It is not necessarily “bringing jobs back”, but seeding future new kinds of jobs.

Threats to International Students and Borders 

- MIT is really in the talent business, admissions is entirely merit based. MIT is usually about spending money on international talent, not siphoning.
- Grad students; HUGE amounts of international students, many stay and contribute to the economy and want to be in the US.
    - SNS: You have to tell your complete story. That’s how you got in.
- Sally is worried. It’s not affecting MIT yet. 10 students or so got their VISAs yoinked, but they all got reinstated.
    - Sally is worried about losing talent to Europe and other countries all over the world.
- UK, France, are putting a lot of money in sniping scientists from the US. Reverse brain drain is possible.
- Moderator: Possible national security concern.
    - Sally: We take security very seriously. Lincoln Labs is very secluded, entirely off campus. No classified info on campus.

MIT Climate Project 

- Sally sees climate change as the existential problem of our time. **Commonwealth fusion**
- **Manhattan Project like Focus** on particular areas. De carbonizing, energizing edge communities, etc.
- What is real vs what is threatened: the administration is threatening a lot, but not too many funding cuts so far.
- Industry is also helping out.
- MIT is also investing on AI that will be less energy intensive as well as how to better power data centers.

MIT President Challenges: October 7th, Hill Challenges, Federal Cuts, Endowment Tax, International students. How have you changed? 

- Team is so important. Comrades in arms.
- University presidents are NOT CEOs. She’s not their boss, researchers are all independent. She’s really had to step up asking for help, collaborating, not commanding.
- Also getting help from the the board of the MIT Corporation, especially in bouncing back from the congressional hearings.
- Taking pleasure in facilitating the MIT science.
- What’s NOT fun: social media opinions
- What’s fun: bra that’s a sonogram for breast cancer, multi tier pills, analysis of parkinsons